[close #227] Update BR readme (#228)
tikv/migration: br/README.md

### Best practice
The following are some recommended operations for using `TiKV-BR` for backup and restoration:
- It is recommended that you perform the backup operation during off-peak hours to minimize the impact on applications.
- `TiKV-BR` supports restore on clusters of different topologies. However, the online applications will be greatly impacted during the restore operation. It is recommended that you perform restore during the off-peak hours or use rate-limit to limit the rate.
- It is recommended that you execute multiple backup operations serially. Running different backup operations in parallel reduces backup performance and also affects the online application.
- It is recommended that you execute multiple restore operations serially. Running different restore operations in parallel increases Region conflicts and also reduces restore performance.
- `TiKV-BR` supports checksum between `TiKV` cluster and backup files after backup or restore with the config `--checksum=true`. Note that, if checksum is enabled, please make sure no data is changed or `TTL` expired in `TiKV` cluster during backup or restore.

> - TiKV-BR supports [`api-version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-%E4%BB%8E-v610-%E7%89%88%E6%9C%AC%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B%E5%BC%95%E5%85%A5) conversion from V1 to V2 with config `--dst-api-version V2`. Then restore the backup files to APIV2 `TiKV` cluster

Reviewer: Suggest to also talk about that the conversion is mainly used for upgrade TiKV storage from `v1` to `v2`.

Author: Added, PTAL~

### TiKV-BR Command Line Description
A br command consists of sub-commands, options, and parameters.

- Sub-command: the characters without - or --, including `backup`, `restore`, `raw` and `help`.
- Option: the characters that start with - or --.
- Parameter: the characters that immediately follow behind and are passed to the sub-command or the option.
#### Backup Raw Data
To back up the cluster raw data, use the `tikv-br backup raw` command. To get help on this command, execute `tikv-br backup raw -h` or `tikv-br backup raw --help`.
For example, backup raw data in TiKV cluster to `/tmp/backup` directory.

```
tikv-br backup raw \
    --pd "&{PDIP}:2379" \
    -s "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \

>     --s3.endpoint "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \

Reviewer: It seems that it's not necessary to specify `--s3.endpoint` when `-s` using the `s3://` schema.

    --dst-api-version v2 \
    --log-file="/tmp/br_backup.log
```

> Explanations for some options in the above command are as follows:: 

Reviewer: There should also be a `--rate-limit` parameter ?

- `backup`: Sub-command of `tikv-br`.
- `raw`: Sub-command of `backup`.
- `-s` or `--storage`: Storage of backup files.
- `"s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/"`: Parameter of `-s`, save the backup files in `"s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/"`.
- `--pd`: Service address of `PD`.
- `"${PDIP}:2379"`:  Parameter of `--pd`.
- `--dst-api-version`: The `api-version`, 请见 [tikv-server config](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-%E4%BB%8E-v610-%E7%89%88%E6%9C%AC%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B%E5%BC%95%E5%85%A5) of backup files.
- `v2`: Parameter of `--dst-api-version`, the optionals are `v1`, `v1ttl`, `v2`(Case insensitive). If no `dst-api-version` is specified, the `api-version` is the same with TiKV cluster of `--pd`.

> A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the backup. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the backup is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:

Reviewer: Add a blank line. Otherwise it will be in the same line with `v2`.

```
br backup raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --log-file backupfull.log
Backup Raw <---------/................................................> 17.12%.
```

> TiKV-BR can do checksum between TiKV cluster and backup files after backup finish with the config  `--checksum=true`.  

Reviewer: Suggest to introduce how to verify backup & restore in a separated section. I think users will much care about the correctness.
Can also talk about the checksum function of `client-go`.

Author: Added one section "Data Verification of Backup&Restore". PTAL~

	-s s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/_test/ \
	--pd ${PD_ADDR}:2379 \
	--log-file backup_test.log \

# Restore from the backup.
bin/tikv-br restore raw \
	-s s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/_test/ \
	--pd ${PD_ADDR}:2379 \
	--log-file restore_test.log
```

## Deploy 

### Recommended Deployment Configuration
- In production environments, deploy `TiKV-BR` on a node with at least 8 cores CPU and 16 GB memory. Select an appropriate OS version by following [Linux OS version requirements](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/hardware-and-software-requirements#linux-os-version-requirements).

- Save backup data to Amazon S3 or one mounted network disk on all `TiKV-BR` and `TiKV` nodes.

- Allocate sufficient resources for backup and restoration.

TiKV-BR, TiKV nodes, and the backup storage system should provide network bandwidth that is greater than the backup speed. If the target cluster is particularly large, the threshold of backup and restoration speed is limited by the bandwidth of the backup network.
The backup storage system should also provide sufficient write/read performance (IOPS). Otherwise, the IOPS might become a performance bottleneck during backup or restoration.

> TiKV nodes need to have at least two additional CPU cores and high performance disks for backups. Otherwise, the backup might have an impact on the services running on the cluster.

Reviewer: Suggest: "TiKV nodes need to have at least two additional spared CPU cores and disk bandwidth (related to `ratelimit` parameter) for backups.

And it would be better to have a section talking about "impact of backup & restore" (maybe in another PR). I think this is another topic that user would concern much.

We can refer to https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/backup-and-restore-faq#how-much-impact-does-a-backup-operation-have-on-the-cluster.

Author: Ok, I will add one more section to talk about the performance impact in another PR.

- `TiKV-BR` supports checksum between `TiKV` cluster and backup files after backup or restore with the config `--checksum=true`. Note that, if checksum is enabled, please make sure no data is changed or `TTL` expired in `TiKV` cluster during backup or restore.
- TiKV-BR supports [`api-version`](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-%E4%BB%8E-v610-%E7%89%88%E6%9C%AC%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B%E5%BC%95%E5%85%A5) conversion from V1 to V2 with config `--dst-api-version V2`. Then restore the backup files to APIV2 `TiKV` cluster. This is mainly used to upgrade from APIV1 cluster to APIV2 cluster.

### TiKV-BR Command Line Description
A br command consists of sub-commands, options, and parameters.

- Sub-command: the characters without - or --, including `backup`, `restore`, `raw` and `help`.
- Option: the characters that start with - or --.
- Parameter: the characters that immediately follow behind and are passed to the sub-command or the option.
#### Backup Raw Data
To back up the cluster raw data, use the `tikv-br backup raw` command. To get help on this command, execute `tikv-br backup raw -h` or `tikv-br backup raw --help`.

> For example, backup raw data in TiKV cluster to `/tmp/backup` directory.

Reviewer: The directory in example is different.

```
tikv-br backup raw \
    --pd "&{PDIP}:2379" \
    -s "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --dst-api-version v2 \
    --log-file="/tmp/br_backup.log
```
Explanations for some options in the above command are as follows:: 
- `backup`: Sub-command of `tikv-br`.
- `raw`: Sub-command of `backup`.
- `-s` or `--storage`: Storage of backup files.
- `"s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/"`: Parameter of `-s`, save the backup files in `"s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/"`.
- `--ratelimit`: Specifies the maximum speed at which a backup operation is performed on each `TiKV` node.
- `128`: The value of `ratelimit`, unit is MiB/s.
- `--pd`: Service address of `PD`.
- `"${PDIP}:2379"`:  Parameter of `--pd`.

> - `--dst-api-version`: The `api-version`, 请见 [tikv-server config](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-%E4%BB%8E-v610-%E7%89%88%E6%9C%AC%E5%BC%80%E5%A7%8B%E5%BC%95%E5%85%A5) of backup files.

Reviewer: Use English & link of English doc.

- `v2`: Parameter of `--dst-api-version`, the optionals are `v1`, `v1ttl`, `v2`(Case insensitive). If no `dst-api-version` is specified, the `api-version` is the same with TiKV cluster of `--pd`.

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the backup. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the backup is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:
```
br backup raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --log-file backupfull.log
Backup Raw <---------/................................................> 17.12%.
```

#### Restore Raw Data

To restore raw data to the cluster, execute the `tikv-br restore raw` command. To get help on this command, execute `tikv-br restore raw -h` or `tikv-br restore raw --help`.

> For example, restore the raw backup files in `/tmp/backup` to `TiKV` cluster.

Reviewer: The directory in example is different.

```
tikv-br restore raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restoreraw.log
```
Explanations for some options in the above command are as follows:

- `--ratelimit`: specifies the maximum speed at which a restoration operation is performed (MiB/s) on each `TiKV` node.

> - --log-file: specifies writing the TiKV-BR log to the `restorefull.log` file.

Reviewer: The log file name in example is different.

--log-file -> `--log-file`

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the restoration. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the restoration is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:
```
tikv-br restore raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restoreraw.log
Restore Raw <---------/...............................................> 17.12%.
```

### Data Verification of Backup&Restore

> TiKV-BR can do checksum between TiKV cluster and backup files after backup or restoration finish with the config `--checksum=true`. Checksum is using the [checksum](https://github.com/tikv/client-go/blob/ffaaf7131a8df6ab4e858bf27e39cd7445cf7929/rawkv/rawkv.go#L584) interface in tikv [client-go](https://github.com/tikv/client-go), which send checksum request to all TiKV regions to calculate the checksum of all **VALID** data. Then compare to the checksum value of backup files which is calculated during backup process.

Reviewer: interface in tikv client-go -> interface in TiKV client-go

> In some scenario, data is stored in TiKV with [TTL](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#enable-ttl). If data is expired during backup&restore, the persisted checksum in backup files is different from the checksum of TiKV cluster. So checksum should not enabled in this scenario. User can perform a full comparison for all existing non-expired data between backup cluster and restore cluster with [scan](https://github.com/tikv/client-go/blob/ffaaf7131a8df6ab4e858bf27e39cd7445cf7929/rawkv/rawkv.go#L492) interface in [client-go](https://github.com/tikv/client-go).

Reviewer: Use link of English doc.

<img src="docs/images/tikv-br-architecture.png?sanitize=true" alt="architecture" width="600"/>

## Documentation

*TODO: Add documents link*

## Building

To build binary and run test:

```bash
$ make build   // build the binary with debug info
$ make release // build the release binary used for production
$ make test    // run unit test
```

*Notice TiKV-BR requires building with Go version `Go >= 1.18`*

When TiKV-BR is built successfully, you can find binary in the `bin` directory.

## Quick Start

```bash
# Using tiup to start a TiKV cluster and record the PD_ADDR
tiup playground --db 0 --pd 1 --kv 3 --monitor

# Using go-ycsb to generate test data.
git clone git@github.com:pingcap/go-ycsb.git
cd go-ycsb; make
./bin/go-ycsb load tikv -P workloads/workloada -p tikv.pd="${PD_ADDR}:2379" \
    -p tikv.type="raw" -p recordcount=100000 -p operationcount=100000 --threads 100

# Backup ycsb test data.
bin/tikv-br backup raw \
	-s s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/_test/ \
	--pd ${PD_ADDR}:2379 \
	--log-file backup_test.log \

# Restore from the backup.
bin/tikv-br restore raw \
	-s s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/_test/ \
	--pd ${PD_ADDR}:2379 \
	--log-file restore_test.log
```

> ## Deploy 

Reviewer: Suggest to add requirement of TiKV version.

- `raw`: Sub-command of `backup`.
- `-s` or `--storage`: Storage of backup files.
- `"s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/"`: Parameter of `-s`, save the backup files in `"s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/"`.
- `--ratelimit`: Specifies the maximum speed at which a backup operation is performed on each `TiKV` node.
- `128`: The value of `ratelimit`, unit is MiB/s.
- `--pd`: Service address of `PD`.
- `"${PDIP}:2379"`:  Parameter of `--pd`.
- `--dst-api-version`: The `api-version`, please see [tikv-server config](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-new-in-v610) of backup files.
- `v2`: Parameter of `--dst-api-version`, the optionals are `v1`, `v1ttl`, `v2`(Case insensitive). If no `dst-api-version` is specified, the `api-version` is the same with TiKV cluster of `--pd`.

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the backup. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the backup is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:
```
br backup raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --log-file backupfull.log
Backup Raw <---------/................................................> 17.12%.

> ```

Reviewer: Suggest to also introduce the result message of backup later.
(Especially the usage of `BackupTs`. And the kv size was confused to users in some past cases.)

Author: Added, PTAL~, thanks a lot.

#### Restore Raw Data

To restore raw data to the cluster, execute the `tikv-br restore raw` command. To get help on this command, execute `tikv-br restore raw -h` or `tikv-br restore raw --help`.
For example, restore the raw backup files in s3 `/backup-data/2022-09-16` to `TiKV` cluster.

```
export AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=&{AWS_KEY_ID};
export AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=&{AWS_KEY};
tikv-br restore raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restoreraw.log
```
Explanations for some options in the above command are as follows:

- `--ratelimit`: specifies the maximum speed at which a restoration operation is performed (MiB/s) on each `TiKV` node.
- `--log-file`: specifies writing the TiKV-BR log to the `restorefull.log` file.

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the restoration. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the restoration is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:
```
tikv-br restore raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restoreraw.log

> Restore Raw <---------/...............................................> 17.12%.

Reviewer: Suggest to also introduce the result message of restore later.

```

> ### Data Verification of Backup&Restore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data Verification of Backup & Restore
```

	--log-file restore_test.log
```

## Deploy 

### Recommended Deployment Configuration
- In production environments, deploy `TiKV-BR` on a node with at least 8 cores CPU and 16 GB memory. Select an appropriate OS version by following [Linux OS version requirements](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/hardware-and-software-requirements#linux-os-version-requirements).

- Save backup data to Amazon S3 or one mounted network disk on all `TiKV-BR` and `TiKV` nodes.

- Allocate sufficient resources for backup and restoration.

TiKV-BR, TiKV nodes, and the backup storage system should provide network bandwidth that is greater than the backup speed. If the target cluster is particularly large, the threshold of backup and restoration speed is limited by the bandwidth of the backup network.  
The backup storage system should also provide sufficient write/read performance (IOPS). Otherwise, the IOPS might become a performance bottleneck during backup or restoration.  
TiKV nodes need to have at least two additional spared CPU cores and disk bandwidth (related to `ratelimit` parameter) for backups. Otherwise, the backup might have an impact on the services running on the cluster.

> *Note: please specify the [api-version](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-new-in-v610) config of TiKV cluster. TiKV-BR supports APIV1 & APIV2 backup/restore and conversion from APIV1 to APIV2. The detail usage is as following.*

Reviewer: I mean the version requirement of TiKV.

- `--dst-api-version`: The `api-version`, please see [tikv-server config](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/stable/tikv-configuration-file#api-version-new-in-v610).
- `v2`: Parameter of `--dst-api-version`, the optionals are `v1`, `v1ttl`, `v2`(Case insensitive). If no `dst-api-version` is specified, the `api-version` is the same with TiKV cluster of `--pd`.

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the backup. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the backup is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:
```
br backup raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --log-file backupfull.log
Backup Raw <---------/................................................> 17.12%.
```

After backup finish, the result message is displayed as follows:
```
[2022/09/20 18:01:10.125 +08:00] [INFO] [collector.go:67] ["Raw backup success summary"] [total-ranges=3] [ranges-succeed=3] [ranges-failed=0] [backup-total-regions=3] [total-take=5.050265883s] [BackupTS=436120585518448641] [total-kv=100000] [total-kv-size=108.7MB] [average-speed=21.11MB/s] [backup-data-size(after-compressed)=78.3MB]
```
Explanations for the above message are as follows: 

> - `total-ranges`: specifies the ranges' count that backup separate the task. Equals to `ranges-succeed` + `ranges-failed`.

Reviewer: `specifies`: suggest to be `indicates` or just remove. The same to followings.

```suggestion
- `total-ranges`: the number of ranges that the whole backup task is splitted to. Equals to `ranges-succeed` + `ranges-failed`.
```

> - `ranges-succeed`: specifies the succeeded task count.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `ranges-succeed`: the number of succeeded ranges.
```

> - `ranges-failed`: specifies the failed task count.

Reviewer: Ditto.

- `backup-total-regions`: specifies the tikv regions that backup takes.
- `total-take`: specifies the backup duration.

> - `BackupTS`: specifies the backup start timestamp, only take effect for APIV2 TiKV cluster, which can be used as TiKV-CDC [start-ts](https://github.com/tikv/migration/blob/main/cdc/README.md).

Reviewer: The last timestamp ?
"which can be used as `start-ts` of `TiKV-CDC` when creating replication tasks. Refer to [`Create a replication task`](https://github.com/tikv/migration/blob/main/cdc/README.md#create-a-replication-task).

- `total-kv`: specifies the total kv count in backup files.

> - `total-kv-size`: specifies the total kv size in backup files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `total-kv-size`: specifies the total kv size in backup files. Note that this is the original size before compression.
```

    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restoreraw.log
```
Explanations for some options in the above command are as follows:

- `--ratelimit`: specifies the maximum speed at which a restoration operation is performed (MiB/s) on each `TiKV` node.
- `--log-file`: specifies writing the TiKV-BR log to the `restorefull.log` file.

A progress bar is displayed in the terminal during the restoration. When the progress bar advances to 100%, the restoration is complete. The progress bar is displayed as follows:
```
tikv-br restore raw \
    --pd "${PDIP}:2379" \
    --storage "s3://backup-data/2022-09-16/" \
    --ratelimit 128 \
    --log-file restoreraw.log
Restore Raw <---------/...............................................> 17.12%.
```

After restoration finish, the result message is displayed as follows:
```
[2022/09/20 18:02:12.540 +08:00] [INFO] [collector.go:67] ["Raw restore success summary"] [total-ranges=3] [ranges-succeed=3] [ranges-failed=0] [restore-files=3] [total-take=950.460846ms] [restore-data-size(after-compressed)=78.3MB] [total-kv=100000] [total-kv-size=108.7MB] [average-speed=114.4MB/s]
```
Explanations for the above message are as follows: 

> - `total-ranges`: specifies the ranges' count that restoration separate the task. Equals to `ranges-succeed` + `ranges-failed`.

Reviewer: Ditto.
